Webscraping with Javascript (#3413)
section-engineering-education/engineering-education: content/articles/introduction-to-web-scraping-with-javascript-and-puppeteer/index.md

---
layout: engineering-education
status: publish
published: true
url: /introduction-to-web-scraping-with-javascript-and-puppeteer/
title: Introduction to Web Scraping With JavaScript and Puppeteer
description: This article takes the reader through Web Scraping With JavaScript and Puppeteer. Web scraping enables users to get data from any website even if it does not provide a public API and display it on a web page.
author: kevin-murimi
date: 2021-09-05T00:00:00-17:50
topics: []
excerpt_separator: <!--more-->
images:
  - url: /engineering-education/introduction-to-web-scraping-with-javascript-and-puppeteer/hero.jpg
    alt: Introduction to Web Scraping With JavaScript and Puppeteer Hero Image
---
Most of our web apps require data to process and present to the user. There are many sources of data like databases and APIs.
<!--more-->

> But we can also get data from any website even if it does not provide a public API. This process is known as **web scraping**, and it has been described in this article. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
But we can also get data from any website even if it does not provide a public API. This process is known as **web scraping**, and we will take a look at it in this article. 
```

});
```

This is the Express JS starter template used to create a server. The code is explained below:
We first import the express package using **const express = require('express')**.

Then, we create an instance of our app using **const app = express()** and specify the port we will listen to using **const port = 3000**.

**app.listen** is a method that takes two arguments. The first argument is the port number that the server will listen to. The second argument is a callback function that is executed when a connection is successfully established.

To start the server, key in the following command and press enter:

```bash
nodemon index.js
```

Now when you navigate to http://localhost:3000/, you will see the message "Server is running". This means that you have successfully started the server, and you can now proceed to the next steps.

## Setting up puppeteer
Since our server is working, it's time we set up puppeteer to get started with web scraping.
In our **index.js** file, add the following line of code just below the line that sets the port number:

```js
const puppeteer = require("puppeteer");
```

The above code imports the puppeteer package into our app.

> In this tutorial, this is the URL of the product that we will be tracking on amazon: https://www.amazon.com/Redragon-S101-Keyboard-Ergonomic-Programmable/dp/B00NLZUM36/

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this tutorial, this is the [URL](https://www.amazon.com/Redragon-S101-Keyboard-Ergonomic-Programmable/dp/B00NLZUM36/)  of the product that we will be tracking on amazon: 
```

So we assign the URL to a constant using the line of code below:

```bash
const url = 'https://www.amazon.com/Redragon-S101-Keyboard-Ergonomic-Programmable/dp/B00NLZUM36/'
```

Now it's time to configure the browser. Add this code in the **index.js** file.

```js
async function configureTheBrowser() {
  const browser = await puppeteer.launch();
  const page = await browser.newPage();
  await page.goto(url, { waitUntil: "load", timeout: 0 });
  return page;
}
```

The code is explained below:
- `puppeteer.launch()` - It is a puppeteer method that launches the browser.
- `puppeteer.newPage` - It is a puppeteer method used to open a new page.
- `puppeteer.goto()` - It is a method that instructs the browser on which URL to go to. It takes two arguments, although the second one is optional. The first parameter is the actual URL. The second argument is used to disable timeout errors if the page you are loading is heavy.

Next up, we need to grab the page markup and extract the exact information we need.

> Before doing this, open your browser and go to the url provided (https://www.amazon.com/Redragon-S101-Keyboard-Ergonomic-Programmable/dp/B00NLZUM36/). From this page, we need to get the image of the keyboard, its price, and its name. Follow these steps:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before doing this, open your browser and go to the [URL](https://www.amazon.com/Redragon-S101-Keyboard-Ergonomic-Programmable/dp/B00NLZUM36/)  provided. From this page, we need to get the image of the keyboard, its price, and its name. Follow these steps:
```
